Page 1
Policies and
Procedures of the
Barony of Axemoor 
Page 2
Table of Contents
I. Group Name
II. Meetings
III. Membership
IV. Baronial Officers
IV-A Deputies
IV-B Officers’ Job Descriptions
1. Greater Officers
Seneschal
Knights Marshal
Reeve
Arts & Science
Herald
2. Lesser Officers
Chatelaine
Chirurgeon
Chronicler
Constable
Historian
Minister/Mistress of Children
Property Master
Provost
V. Baron and Baroness
V-1 Baronage – Definition
V-2 Duties and Responsibilities of the Baronage of Axemoor
V-3 Baronial Succession
V-4 Polling Eligibility
VI. Baronial Awards
Order of the Axe
Order of the Gull
Order of the Pillar of Axemoor
Order of the Jutinian
Citizen of Axemoor
Companion of the Bow & Blade
Order of the Shearling
Order of the Fleece 
Page 3
VII. Events
Event Proposals
Event Bids
A. Autocrat Responsibilities
B. Feast-crat Responsibilities
C. Officer Event Responsibilities
Seneschal
Reeve
Knights Marshal
Herald
A&S
Constable
Chronicler
Historian
Chatelaine
Minister/Mistress of Children
General Activities
Appendix I
 Fiscal Policy of the Barony of Axemoor
 Contributions
 Reimbursements
 Events
Appendix II
 Definitions
 Corpora
 Gleann Abhann Kingdom Law (GAKL)
 Kingdom of Gleann Abhann
 Crown
 Royal Heirs
 Baronet
 Drop Dead Deputy
 Troll 
Page 4
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES OF THE
BARONY OF AXEMOOR
This document, known as the Policies and Procedures of The Barony of Axemoor, contains the traditions, guidelines
and general operating procedures for the business of running The Barony of Axemoor. It is written in accordance
with Mundane Law, Corporate Law and Kingdom of Gleann Abhann Law.
The Baronage is responsible for the updating and revising of this document. It is the responsibility of each Baronage
to review and revise these Policies and Procedures within one year of their investiture or every three years. Any
Baronial member may suggest to the Baronage amendments to these Policies and Procedures. The Baronage of
Axemoor may poll the populace of Axemoor regarding changes to the policies and procedures, but the final decision
rests with the Baronage.
I. Group Name
This branch of the Society for Creative Anachronism, Inc. (SCA) is designated as a Barony as
defined under the Corpora of the SCA, Article V.A.3, and is known as the Barony of Axemoor.
The geographical boundaries of the Barony include the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson,
Plaquemines, St. Bernard, parts of St. Tammany, Terrebonne and Lafourche, Louisiana. This is
more clearly defined by zip codes as recorded by the Kingdom of Gleann Abhann. Axemoor was
made a barony in 1978.
II. Meetings
Regular business meetings shall be held monthly at a time and location to be determined by the
Seneschal. The Seneschal shall be responsible for the format of these meetings. Baronial officers
should notify the Seneschal or Baron/Baroness in advance, if possible, if they are unable to
attend a regular business meeting, and the officer shall make every effort to ensure that a report
of the status of their office is made at regular business meetings. All business shall be conducted
at the regularly scheduled business meeting.
III. Membership
A Baronial member is defined as a paid member of the SCA whose address on file with SCA
corporate is within the geographical boundaries of the Barony or domiciled in undeclared land
who declares him/herself a member of the Barony. No person who is actively serving as an
officer or deputy officer for another group other than a subgroup of this Barony as recognized by
Corpora or Kingdom Law, (such as a Canton or College) will be considered a member of the
Barony. 
Page 5
IV. Baronial Officers
The duty of each officer is to administer to the needs of the populace within his/her sphere of
responsibility and to report to the appropriate Baronial and Kingdom Officers. Through their
stewardship information, instruction and hands-on demonstrations shall be made readily
available to the populace. Officers will be accessible to the general populace. Communications
among officers will be maintained when activities overlap or impact more than one officer’s
sphere of responsibility. A baronial office will hold no precedence or entitle the officer to
privileges above those of any member of the populace. In keeping with Kingdom Law, all
officers will be current members of the SCA and receive the Kingdom newsletter at their
residence. The Baronage and the greater officers must be 18 years of age or older. All officers
shall report as required to their respective Kingdom Officer and supply copies of all reports to
the Seneschal and Baronage. Each officer is expected to serve a minimum of two years. There
is no term limitation.
A. Deputies
Within 6 months of assuming the office, the Officer will strive to appoint deputies to assist
him/her. The deputies will be announced to the populace and will actively participate in the
duties of that office. Any member of the populace may voice concerns about any deputy’s
capabilities of performing his/her office. A drop-dead deputy shall be named for any office
within six months of assuming the office. A period of training for this deputy is recommended.
If for any reason an officer should find it necessary to vacate his/her office prior to the two year
time period, a replacement and turnover procedures must be discussed with the Baronage and
Seneschal, but the final decision remains with the Crown and Kingdom officers.
B. Officer Job Descriptions
1. Greater Officers:
Seneschal: The Seneschal is the mundane legal authority for the Barony. Responsibilities
include the following: scheduling and conducting business meetings; scheduling demos;
scheduling events on Kingdom calendars; locating & scheduling sites for events; contracting to
have the Baronial Property Trailer taken to/returned from events by a paid memeber; ensuring that all other officers are performing their duties; advising the Baron and Baroness on the running of the Barony; setting objectives to accomplish the goals set by the Baronage; acting as primary contact for all
media exposure; acting with the Baronage as referee and neutral party in disputes between
members of the group and, if necessary, acting as arbitrator of the dispute; assume the duties of
an office left vacant by the resignation of an officer until a suitable replacement is found;
performing all other duties in his/her sphere of responsibilities as assigned by the Kingdom
Seneschal. Refer to Kingdom and Society Officer’s handbooks.
Knights Marshal: Responsibilities include promoting safety of all fighters in the field;
organizing and running fighting activities at all Axemoor events, demos and fighters practices; 
Page 6
conducting armor inspections for all fighting activities; working with the herald to run
tournament lists; checking membership status, fighter cards and if necessary, waivers at all
events, demos and activities; and performing all duties in his/her sphere of responsibility as
assigned by the Seneschal, Baronage or the appropriate Kingdom Officer. The Marshals for
SCA rapier combat, youth combat, combat archery, target archery and/or live weapons shall
report to the appropriate Kingdom Officer, with copies of all reports going to the KM &
Seneschal. Refer to Kingdom and Society Officer’s handbooks.
Exchequer: Responsibilities of the Exchequer include but are not limited to maintaining and
overseeing the baronial checkbook, banking records, and all financial transactions of the Barony
of Axemoor. It is also the responsibility of the office of the exchequer to coordinate all gate/troll
activities at Axemoor events. Refer to Kingdom Exchequer handbook for further information on
this office
Arts & Science: Responsibilities of the minister of Arts and Sciences are to oversee and
promote the Arts and Sciences within The Barony of Axemoor. Examples of responsibilities of
the Minister of Arts and Sciences of Axemoor include scheduling A&S activities throughout the
month like A&S nights; dance classes; workshops, etc., coordinating all A&S activities at
Axemoor events, reporting to the Kingdom Minister of Arts and Sciences on the activities of
Arts and Sciences within Axemoor. For more information, see kingdom guidelines for local
ministers of Arts and Sciences.
Herald: Responsibilities of this office include but are not limited to aiding members of the
populace in researching and registering their names and devices, coordination all heralding
activities at Axemoor events, and maintaining a baronial database of all people who are
recipients of Axemoor awards.
2. Lesser Officers:
Chatelaine: Responsibilities include coordinating the welcoming of new and interested
members; maintaining and providing loaner garb and feast gear; coordinating and performing
demos for purposes of recruitment and/or public awareness; performing all other duties in his/her
sphere of responsibility as assigned by the Seneschal, Baron/Baroness or the appropriate
Kingdom Officer. Refer to Kingdom and Society Officer’s handbooks.
Chirurgeon: Responsibilities include maintaining appropriate SCA and mundane certification;
keeping supplies in chapter’s kit current (as medical supplies are provided at no cost to the
patient, each SCA chapter will provide the necessary money or materials to maintain an
approved first aid kit. (Refer to GAKL IV-4.07 e) Once invited to attend an injured individual
by the Marshal, the Chirurgeon becomes the ultimate authority on the field until the situation is
resolved. The Chirurgeon will also perform all other duties in his/her sphere of responsibility as
assigned by the Seneschal, Baron/Baroness or the appropriate Kingdom Officer. Refer to
Kingdom and Society Officer’s handbooks.
Chronicler: Responsibilities include the upkeep, content and preparation of the Baronial
Newsletter, “Bayou Tapestry”, maintain database of baronial members, promote solicitation of 
Page 7
articles for “Ambassador (GA Kingdom newsletter)” and ”Tournaments Illuminated” and
perform all other duties in his/her sphere of responsibility as assigned by the Seneschal,
Baron/Baroness or the appropriate Kingdom Officer. The Chronicler may have a deputy in
charge of the Baronial Internet site. Refer to Kingdom and Society Officer’s handbooks.
Web Minster Responsibilities include maintaining the website of The Barony of Axemoor and
all web hosting activities of The Barony of Axemoor including ensuring event fliers are posted
on line, all virtual information is kept recent, and ensuring that the Barony’s web-hosting account
is current and informing the Exchequer to ensure account is current.
Constable: Responsibilities include maintaining lost and found; publishing list of lost and found
in newsletter following events; disposing of unclaimed property in accordance with Kingdom
Law, solving security problems and notifying appropriate authority at events; controlling parking
at events and working with Autocrat to place SCA signs at events; acting as Sergeant of Arms at
baronial meeting; performing all duties in his/her sphere of responsibilities as assigned by the
Seneschal, Baronage or the appropriate Kingdom Officer.
Historian: Responsibilities include maintaining a written/pictorial history of the Barony and its
events; keeping a record of all offices in the group, who holds the office, when they took the
office and when they turned the office over; keeping copies of all event flyers for events the
group holds, all newspaper and magazine articles about the group, thank you cards and letters, all
scrolls received by the group and pertinent items from the files of the officers; performing all
other duties in his/her sphere of responsibility as assigned by the Seneschal, Baron/Baroness or
the appropriate Kingdom Officer. Refer to Kingdom and Society Officer’s handbooks.
Minister of Children: Responsibilities include promoting children’s participation in the Barony
and the SCA; overseeing children’s activities for events hosted by the Barony; watching for
those deserving of the Order of the Lamb at events and making recommendations; performing all
other duties in his/her sphere of responsibility as assigned by the Seneschal, Baron/Baroness or
the appropriate Kingdom Officer. (Refer to GAKL V-5.05) Refer to Kingdom and Society
Officer’s handbook.
Quartermaster: Deputy Office to Exchequer. Responsibilities include arranging the inventory
and storage of all Baronial property, maintaining the status of the property through an annual
inspection, overseeing all Baronial property loaned out to individuals and groups, informing the
Exchequer, Seneschal and Baron/Baroness of Baronial property in disrepair so that the property
may be replaced or repaired, performing all other duties in his/her sphere of responsibility as
assigned by the Exchequer, Seneschal and Baron/Baroness.
Provost: Deputy Office to A&S. Responsibilities include promoting registration to support the
Royal University of Gleann Abhann; overseeing all classes taught in the barony; keeping the
populace informed of the requirements necessary for completion of individual degrees;
maintaining a database of transcripts of classes taken by members of the Barony at local events
as well as those taken outside the Barony of Axemoor; performing all other duties in his/her
sphere of responsibility as assigned by the A&S Officer, Seneschal and Baron/Baroness. 
Page 8
V. Baronage of Axemoor
A. Baronage – Definition
In accordance with Corpora (VI.B.1) and Gleann Abhann Kingdom Law (III-3.01), and the
policies defined below, the Territorial Baron and Baroness (Baronage) are the ruling nobles of
the Barony and serve as the voice and the presence of the Crown of Gleann Abhann.
B. Duties and Responsibilities of the Baronage of Axemoor
The Baronage of Axemoor serves as the voice and presence of The Crown of Gleann Abhann.
As such, Leadership of the Barony of Axemoor is the responsibility of the Baronage. Respect
due the Crown of Gleann Abhann shall also be paid to the Baronage as they speak with the voice
of The Crown of Gleann Abhann. The Baronage will set goals and provide direction for the
Barony for the duration of their time as Axemoor’s Baronage. The Baronage of Axemoor will
also be held accountable by the Crown of Gleann Abhann for the success or failure of the
running of the barony. Thus, it is important that the Baronage and the Seneschal work in tandem
to promote the health and well-being of the group.
The Baron/Baroness should try to attend Gulf Wars, Kingdom, and baronial events as reasonably
possible in support of the Barony and Kingdom.
C. Baronial Succession
1. The Baronage upon deciding that they wish to step down shall meet with The Crown of
Gleann Abhann and determine a time that is acceptable to both The Crown and The
Baronage.
2. Once the date of Investiture has been decided, the order of events outlined in the
following section shall take place. The process may seem counter-intuitive, but this will
allow the current Baronage to work with incoming Baronage a sufficient amount of time
to ensure that the transition between administrations is smooth and serves the best
interests of The Barony of Axemoor.
a. Polling of the populace of Axemoor by the Crown of Gleann Abhann shall occur
four months prior to investiture.
b. A time and a place that is one month prior to polling shall be designated by the
Seneschal as the Town Hall meeting. The Seneschal is responsible to coordinate
the scheduling of the meeting location for the Town Hall meeting. The Current
Baronage shall determine the format of the Town Hall meeting and The Seneschal
shall facilitate the Town Hall meeting.
c. One Month prior to the Town Hall meeting, all Letters of Intent are due to The
Baronage of Axemoor, The Crown of Gleann Abhann, and The Seneschal of
Gleann Abhann, and the Seneschal of Axemoor.
d. One month prior to the due date of Letters of intent, the Baronage of Axemoor
shall issue an official announcement of their intentions to step down. An official 
Page 9
announcement should include if possible: a public statement in the Court of Their
Majesties of Gleann Abhann of their intention to step down, an announcement in
the baronial news letter, and an announcement on the baronial e-group.
3. All persons interested in holding the Office of the Baronage of Axemoor shall submit a
letter of intent to The Crown, current Baronag, The kingdom Seneschal and the Seneschal
of Axemoor specifying the following:
a. Mundane name
b. SCA name
c. Proof of membership, number and expiration date
d. Awards/titles
e. Offices held
f. Justification for candidacy
g. Letters must be received by the due date or candidates shall not be deemed
eligible.
4. Candidates must be paid members of the SCA for a minimum of one year and reside
within the Barony of Axemoor. They must have attended at least 6 populace meetings in
the past 12 months prior to the announcement and have attended at least one Baronial
event in the same period. They must have resided within the Barony for a minimum of
one year, that year closing with the date of the polling of the populace by the crown.
5 The list of candidates must be submitted to the Crown for approval. The outgoing
Baronage or designee shall announce the approved list of candidates to the populace at a
business meeting and may publish to the baronial e-group.
6. The Seneschal or designee if the Seneschal is running, will mail ballots to the populace.
Ballots will then be collected by a designee of the crown and given to the crown
unopened. No person within the Barony of Axemoor may know the results of the polling
before the Crown of Gleann Abhann, unless otherwise decided by the Crown of Gleann
Abhann. Decision of the succession of the Baronage of Axemoor rests solely with the
Crown of Gleann Abhann, and the polling of the populace of Axemoor serves as advice
to The Crown only. Polling results should not be viewed as a binding decision as all lands
within the kingdom of Gleann Abhann belong to The Crown, and They may do as They
wish.
D. Polling Eligibility
Someone eligible to be polled is defined as a paid member of the SCA with an address on record
with SCA corporate within the geographical boundaries of the Barony or domiciled or in
undeclared lands who declares him/herself a member of the Barony. No person who is actively
serving as an officer or deputy officer for another group, other than a subgroup of this Barony as
recognized by Corpora or Kingdom Law (such as a Canton or College), will be considered a
member of the Barony. 
Page 10
VI. Baronial Awards
Order of the Axe.
The highest award granted in the Barony of Axemoor for service. It is an award of special distinction,
granted to those by The Baronage of Axemoor who have served the Barony with the highest merit. With
the permission of the Crown of Gleann Abhann, and on recommendation of the Baron/Baroness, the
Order may bear an Award of Arms, and the bearer may process ahead of a simple Award of Arms.
(GAKL IX-9.01) The Companions within the Order may place the initials C.A.A. after their names and
may bear the badge of the Order. Members of the Order are asked to give names of potential members
to the Secretary of the Order and the Baronage. All current members will be polled on the new members
for their advice and recommendations.
Order of the Gull.
This award is given by The Baronage of Axemoor to those who have distinguished themselves in the Arts
and Sciences within the Barony. Companions within the Order have the right to bear the badge of the
Order. All members of the Order are asked to give names of potential members to the Secretary of the
Order and the Baron/Baroness. All current members will be polled on the new members for their advice
and recommendations. This award carries no precedence.
Order of the Pillar of Axemoor.
This award is to be given once per year at Christmas Revel by The Baronage of Axemoor to the Lord and
Lady who, by word and action, best exemplified the ideals of the Society and the Barony over the past
year, Loyalty, Chivalry and Grace. Induction to the Order is recognition of special dignity. Polling ballots
are cast by members of the Barony present at Christmas Revel. Companions within this Order will have
their names inscribed on the Pillars Scroll. This award carries no precedence.
Order of Justinian.
This award is given by The Baronage of Axemoor to those that serve as examples of living the dream
through exemplary persona development and/or period practices within their SCA life. This award was
created in the memory of a dear friend and member of the Barony of Axemoor, Lord Justinian
Artemesius. His passion for Byzantine persona development and fashion brilliance showed he was living
the Dream. This award carries no precedence. All members of the Order are asked to give names of
potential members to the Secretary of the Order and the Baron and Baroness. All current members will
be polled on the new members for their advice and recommendations. There will be a Secretary of the
Order who will be in charge of keeping a standing record of all members of this order. This award
carries no precedence.
Citizen of Axemoor
This award is presented by the Baron and Baroness to an individual who has served the Barony in an
exceptional manner. This award carries no precedence.
Page 11
Companion of the Bow & Blade
This award is presented by the Baronage to an individual who has displayed martial prowess
within any of the martial arts sanctioned by the SCA (to include, heavy weapons, rapier combat,
target archery, combat archery, & live weapons). Members of the Order are asked to give names
of potential members to the Secretary of the Order and the Baronage. All current members will
be polled on the new members for their advice and recommendations. This award carries no
precedence.
Order of the Shearling
This award is presented by the Baronage to a minor who has served the Barony in an exceptional manner
and set an example to other children by his/her service. This award carries no precedence.
Order of the Fleece
This award is presented by the Baronage to a youth domiciled in Axemoor to encourage the
principles of Chivalry, Artistry or Service which are promoted within the Peerages of the
Society. Each Principle is represented by a token depicting the path within the Society to which
the child is serving. A Gules (red) token shall be utilized to depict marshal prowess. A Vert
(green) token shall be utilized to depict growth within the Arts and Sciences. An Or (yellow)
token shall be utilized to depict exemplary service. Youth are encouraged to collect all three
Principles. This award carries no precedence.
The Order of the Tower and Lily
This award shall be given at the pleasure of the Baronage of Axemoor to those that they view as
the embodiment of “the Dream.” It was created by Their Excellencies Charles and Martha in
honor of Their Excellencies Ifor and Morgana, whose leadership post hurricane Katrina served as
an inspiration for many. Members of The Order of the Tower and Lily are held in the highest
esteem of The Baronage of Axemoor, so while this award carries no precedence – members of
this order may not pay the traditional reverence due to The Baronage of Axemoor and may
approach the presence of The Baronage of Axemoor without permission and uninvited.
1. The Rolls of Chivalry and Grace is a written record given to The Order of The Tower
and Lily by Their Excellencies of Axemoor wherein any deeds of Chivalry, Courtesy,
Honor, or Grace both great and small witnessed by a member of The Order of The Tower
and Lily are to be transcribed. These deeds will be read in court by Their Excellencies to
acknowledge the good that people do in Gleann Abhann. The Rolls of Chivalry and
Grace will remain in the possession of the Principles of The Order of The Tower and
Lily, Ifor and Morgana or a designee made by them in the order, until requested by Their
Excellencies of Axemoor. It is the responsibility of The Order of The Tower and Lily to
seek out, promote and record deeds worthy of The Rolls of Chivalry and Grace. This was
created to encourage members to look for people who are doing good things rather than
focusing on the negative aspects. Their Excellencies Charles and Martha hold The Dream
near to their hearts and hope that their heirs will continue this tradition of searching for
the good in people and encouraging all to look for people “doing good.” 
Page 12
The Order of Elerium
This award shall be given at the pleasure of the Baronage of Axemoor to those that guide and
nurture newcomers to the SCA. The order of Elerium was created by Their Excellencies Charles
and Martha to honor Her Excellency Eleri, former Baroness of Axemoor, who served many
people when they joined the SCA as friend, mentor and guide. This award carries no precedence.
VII. Events
Event Proposals: Event proposals shall be received by the Seneschal and the Baronage
from any member of the populace at least 9 months out from the proposed date of the
event. Proposals will be presented at the next business meeting and a decision to accept
or reject the proposal or not will be made by the greater officers of the group in a simple
majority vote. A cutoff date for accepting event bids will be established at this time.
Event Bids: Written bids for event proposals shall be sent to the Seneschal, Exchequer, and to the
Baronage. All bids received by the Seneschal by the established cut off date will be
discussed with the populace at the regular scheduled business meeting. The bid
information must include: name of event, date of event, proposed site, Autocrat’s name,
Feast-crat’s name, proposed activities, a feast menu outline and estimated budget. If
more than one bid is presented, the Baronage and the Seneschal will decide the which bid
to award after consulting with the populace.
A. Autocrat Responsibilities:
1. The Autocrat is responsible for the running and direction of the event and will be
given authority to carry out the running of the event. An Autocrat will operate as a
Deputy Seneschal for the duration of his/her tenure as Autocrat.
2. The Autocrat shall appoint such persons as are necessary to assist him/her with the
running of the event. Such appointments shall be discussed with the Seneschal and
Baron/Baroness.
3. Present Flyer information and submit it to the Seneschal for approval. Once approved,
the Seneschal will send the flyer to the Kingdom Chronicler before the 15th of the
month for the Flyer to run for three months prior to and the month of the event.
4. The Autocrat or designee makes arrangements for classes/teachers, work crews,
arrange for balls, entertainment, games.
5. The Autocrat is also responsible for designating a Nasty-crat to periodically patrol
bathrooms for paper and emptying of the trash receptacles (including the kitchen). 
Page 13
6. Keep the populace up to date on the event at business meetings.
B. Feast-crat Responsibilities:
1. Present the proposed menu to the Autocrat at least (when possible) one month prior to
the event. Print and post the menu with list of ingredients at the event.
2. Appoint such persons as are necessary to assist him/her with preparation and service
of meals at the event. The Feast-crat shall appoint a Hall Steward who will be
responsible for setting up the hall for feast, recruiting servers and help take down
after feast.
3. Feast-crat is in charge of all food for the event, he/she may designate (or ask for
volunteers) someone to handle Traveler’s Fare, Breakfast for Sat. & Sun. and the
Fundraiser Luncheon.
4. Feast-crat is also responsible for opening & preparing the kitchen; supervising the
cleaning of the kitchen, putting away of the leftovers, making sure the kitchen is
cleaned after the event and making sure that the Baronial kitchen items are returned to
the trailer.
5. Familiarize him/herself with all applicable food preparation health and safety
standards, and abide by these standards in carrying out his/her duties.
6. The Feastcrat, Autocrat, and Exchequer are to go over the feast budget.  
C. Officer Event Responsibilities:
Seneschal – site selection & contract; insurance; opens & closes site (or appoints a
designee); supports Autocrat & Feast-crat; makes sure the Baronial Trailer is contracted
for delivery/return from site from its place of storage
Exchequer – event pricing with financial committee; Head Troll or may designate
someone to run Troll, but is ultimately responsible at all times
Knights Marshal – organizes & schedules the Tourneys; sets up tourney field; inspects
fighters; makes arrangements for Tourney Marshals, Tourney Herald, List Mistress; and
arranges for a Waterbearer-in-Charge
Herald – provides or designates the Site Herald; provides or designates a Court Herald;
sends off the Court Event Report of Awards given to the Gleann Abhann Obsidian Herald
and to the Baronial Historian
A&S – oversees classes & competitions, recording results; works with the Autocrat on
providing assistance as needed in scheduling classes
Constable – responsible for placement of SCA signs; parking; security; sending off event
waiver paperwork and maintaining event records; works with Head Troll; maintains &
posts a listing of Lost & Found shortly after the event. Lost & Found items will be kept 
Page 14
for a period of one year; items left unclaimed will be turned over to the Barony for
auction.
Chronicler – once given, publishes the Flyer in the Bayou Tapestry; helps promote the
event to other groups
Historian – keeps written and if possible pictorial records of event & activities
Chatelaine – provides loaner garb as needed; has flyers available for newcomers
Minister/Mistress of Children – provides for children’s activities; works with Autocrat
on designating a place for Children’s Activities at the Event
General Activities (everyone helps)
Setting up site - putting up/taking down decorations, setting up/putting away of the
baronial pavilion if used, Hauling trailer only by paid memebers. 
Sunday am closing of site - cleaning cabins & bathrooms (includes sweeping &
mopping); cleaning main hall; patrolling grounds for any wayward items; depositing
trash into the proper receptacles
APPENDIX I
FISCAL POLICY OF THE BARONY OF AXEMOOR
The fiscal policy outlined herein pertains to the Barony of Axemoor. All laws
concerning the Kingdom of Gleann Abhann will be followed and will not be superseded
by the Barony of Axemoor’s fiscal policy.
Financial Committee
A. The Financial committee of The Barony of Axemoor shall include the offices
of The Baronage and The Greater Officers Of Axemoor. Each office receives
one vote on matters that need to be decided upon.
B. The financial committee is responsible for approving all expenditures greater
than $150 by the Barony of Axemoor. Any expenditure less than $150 may be
approved by at least two members of the financial committee after consulting
both The Seneschal and The Baronage.
C. The Financial Committee will sign off on the annual budgets for the Barony
of Axemoor as submitted by the Greater Officers of Axemoor.
D. There shall be one meeting per year of the financial committee and the greater
officers to create the operating budget for the Barony of Axemoor. This 
Page 15
meeting is open to all populace members. It is the responsibility of the
Seneschal to schedule this meeting.
Contributions
A. Payable The Society for Creative Anachronism – The Barony of Axemoor (SCA inc, Barony of Axemoor)
B. Clearly indicate for whom/what purpose it is intended.
Reimbursements
A. Reimbursements will be made with approved voucher for administrative expenses such as postage,
copying, and paper per the budget amounts assigned to each office.
B. Expense reports must be filled out completely with appropriate approval/signatures. They must have
the approval signature from the appropriate Barony of Axemoor office or the Seneschal and shall be
submitted by that officer to the Exchequer.
C. Reimbursement made after purchase can be made only with appropriate prior written approval.
D. Any expense exceeding $100 (except event expenses) must have prior approval from the Baronial
Financial committee.
E. Advances may be made if purchase requires substantial expense. An estimate or quote is preferable in
this instance with payment sent directly to the vendor/supplier, with cash advance form.
F. Expense reports and receipts must be submitted within 30 days of purchase or in the case of an event,
by the close of the event.
G. Receipts are required for all expenses regardless of the amount.
G. Disposition of Baronial property valued at more than $100 to be approved by members of the Financial
Committee .
Events
A. The Autocrat of an event will be responsible for monitoring and tracking event costs. If an event goes
in excess of $200 over budget it must have the prior approval of the financial committee.
B. If an event has two (2) Autocrats or two (2) Feast-crats, one will be designated as in charge of the
allocation of funds.
C. Advances may be made for purchase of food for an event by the Feast-crat and for supplies by the
Autocrat. The Food Budget for an event will be subject to current market values.
D. Event registration for The Crown (2), The Heirs (2), The Baronage (2), Autocrat (1), Feast-crat (1), are
waived. Additional exceptions to this rule can be granted only at the discretion of the financial
committee and autocrat, all must be current members . 
Page 16
APPENDIX II
DEFINITIONS
Corpora: A document, defining the structure of the medieval organization used by the Society
in its re-creations, and including minimum requirements and guidelines for that organization.
This document is referred to as the Corpora of the Society. (“Corpora: the policies governing
historical recreation within the Society, and those policies applicable to the entire Society.”)
Gleann Abhann Kingdom Law (GAKL): “The Laws of Gleann Abhann shall be the
Word of the Crown, publicly proclaimed and printed in the Kingdom Newsletter, subject to the
authority of the Board of Directors, Corpora, and the By-laws of the Society for Creative
Anachronism, Inc. and the Laws of the United States of America. No new law or amendments
shall be in effect, nor shall the subjects of Gleann Abhann be held in account for the new law or
amendment until both proclamations by the Crown and publication I the Kingdom Newsletter
takes place.” (Gleann Abhann Kingdom Law, I-1.03)
Kingdom of Gleann Abhann:. That part, whose geographical boundaries include the
following states of the United States of America: Arkansas (except for Washington and Benton
counties), Louisiana, Mississippi, and extreme western Tennessee.
Crown: “The Crown shall consist of the Sovereign and Consort of Gleann Abhann.” (Gleann
Abhann Kingdom Law, II-2.01)
 Heirs: “The Royal Heirs shall consist of the Crown Prince and Crown Princess of Gleann
Abhann”. (Gleann Abhann Law, II-2.02)
Baronage: The Baronage shall consist of the Baron and/or Baroness of Axemoor.
Drop Dead Deputy: A person shall be named a “drop-dead deputy” when, after appropriate
training for a position in any office, he or she is willing to step in as a replacement officer.
Troll: The registration desk at events where fees and waivers are collected. It is also, referred
to as “Gate” and “The Registration of Lords and Ladies”.
